README.rst, before:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Double Metaphone
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :backlinks: top
   :local:

About
=====

Metaphone
---------
As described on the `Wikipedia page`_, the original Metaphone algorithm was
published in 1990 as an improvement over the `Soundex`_ algorithm. Like
Soundex, it was limited to English-only use. The Metaphone algorithm does not
produce phonetic representations of an input word or name; rather, the output
is an intentionally approximate phonetic representation. The approximate
encoding is necessary to account for the way speakers vary their pronunciations
and misspell or otherwise vary words and names they are trying to spell.

Double Metaphone
----------------
The Double Metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of
the Metaphone algorithm. Its implementation was described in the June 2000
issue of C/C++ Users Journal. It makes a number of fundamental design
improvements over the original Metaphone algorithm.

It is called "Double" because it can return both a primary and a secondary code
for a string; this accounts for some ambiguous cases as well as for multiple
variants of surnames with common ancestry. For example, encoding the name
"Smith" yields a primary code of SM0 and a secondary code of XMT, while the
name "Schmidt" yields a primary code of XMT and a secondary code of SMT--both
have XMT in common.

Double Metaphone tries to account for myriad irregularities in English of
Slavic, Germanic, Celtic, Greek, French, Italian, Spanish, Chinese, and other
origin. Thus it uses a much more complex ruleset for coding than its
predecessor; for example, it tests for approximately 100 different contexts of
the use of the letter C alone.

The Implementation
------------------
This is a copy of the Python Double Metaphone algorithm, taken from `Andrew
Collins' work`_, a Python implementation of an algorithm in C originally
created by Lawrence Philips. Since then, improvements have been made by several
contributors.

Usage
=====

Running the Unit Tests
----------------------
``double-metaphone`` uses the ``unittest`` package from the standard library,
and as such, its tests are runable by most test runners. If you have nose
installed, you can do the following::

  $ git checkout https://github.com/oubiwann/double-metaphone.git
  $ cd double-metaphone
  $ nosetests -v .

If you have Twisted installed, you can do::

  $ trial ./tests

Example Code
------------

The unit tests are full of examples, so be sure to check those out. But here's
a taste::

  $ python
  >>> from metaphone import doublemetaphone
  >>> doublemetaphone("architect")
  ("ARKTKT", "")
  >>> doublemetaphone("bajador")
  ("PJTR", "PHTR")

In the Wild
===========

The following developers/projects make use of this library:

* `Matthew Somerville`_ uses it on Theatricalia to do people name matching, and
  it appears to work `quite well`_. The database stores the double metaphones
  for first and last names, and then upon searching simply computes the double
  metaphones of what has been entered and looks up anything that matches.

* `Duncan McGreggor`_ uses it on the `φarsk project`_ to provide greater full
  text search capabilities for Indo-European language word lists and
  dictionaries.

.. Links
.. _Wikipedia page: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaphone#Double_Metaphone
.. _Soundex: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundex
.. _Andrew Collins' work: http://atomboy.isa-geek.com/plone/Members/acoil/programing/double-metaphone/metaphone.py
.. _Matthew Somerville: https://github.com/dracos/
.. _Duncan McGreggor: https://github.com/oubiwann/
.. _quite well: http://theatricalia.com/search?q=chuck+iwugee
.. _φarsk project: https://github.com/oubiwann/tharsk

Commit message:

Added a note about Andrew Collins' original use.

README.rst, after:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Double Metaphone
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. contents::
   :depth: 2
   :backlinks: top
   :local:

About
=====

Metaphone
---------
As described on the `Wikipedia page`_, the original Metaphone algorithm was
published in 1990 as an improvement over the `Soundex`_ algorithm. Like
Soundex, it was limited to English-only use. The Metaphone algorithm does not
produce phonetic representations of an input word or name; rather, the output
is an intentionally approximate phonetic representation. The approximate
encoding is necessary to account for the way speakers vary their pronunciations
and misspell or otherwise vary words and names they are trying to spell.

Double Metaphone
----------------
The Double Metaphone phonetic encoding algorithm is the second generation of
the Metaphone algorithm. Its implementation was described in the June 2000
issue of C/C++ Users Journal. It makes a number of fundamental design
improvements over the original Metaphone algorithm.

It is called "Double" because it can return both a primary and a secondary code
for a string; this accounts for some ambiguous cases as well as for multiple
variants of surnames with common ancestry. For example, encoding the name
"Smith" yields a primary code of SM0 and a secondary code of XMT, while the
name "Schmidt" yields a primary code of XMT and a secondary code of SMT--both
have XMT in common.

Double Metaphone tries to account for myriad irregularities in English of
Slavic, Germanic, Celtic, Greek, French, Italian, Spanish, Chinese, and other
origin. Thus it uses a much more complex ruleset for coding than its
predecessor; for example, it tests for approximately 100 different contexts of
the use of the letter C alone.

The Implementation
------------------
This is a copy of the Python Double Metaphone algorithm, taken from `Andrew
Collins' work`_, a Python implementation of an algorithm in C originally
created by Lawrence Philips. Since then, improvements have been made by several
contributors.

Usage
=====

Running the Unit Tests
----------------------
``double-metaphone`` uses the ``unittest`` package from the standard library,
and as such, its tests are runable by most test runners. If you have nose
installed, you can do the following::

  $ git checkout https://github.com/oubiwann/double-metaphone.git
  $ cd double-metaphone
  $ nosetests -v .

If you have Twisted installed, you can do::

  $ trial ./tests

Example Code
------------

The unit tests are full of examples, so be sure to check those out. But here's
a taste::

  $ python
  >>> from metaphone import doublemetaphone
  >>> doublemetaphone("architect")
  ("ARKTKT", "")
  >>> doublemetaphone("bajador")
  ("PJTR", "PHTR")

In the Wild
===========

The following developers/projects make use of this library:

* `Andrew Collins`_ used his original code in various music projects and
  dealing with misspelled text from data provided by various web services. This
  was then integrated with Plone/Zope projects.

* `Matthew Somerville`_ uses it on Theatricalia to do people name matching, and
  it appears to work `quite well`_. The database stores the double metaphones
  for first and last names, and then upon searching simply computes the double
  metaphones of what has been entered and looks up anything that matches.

* `Duncan McGreggor`_ uses it on the `φarsk project`_ to provide greater full
  text search capabilities for Indo-European language word lists and
  dictionaries.

.. Links
.. _Wikipedia page: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaphone#Double_Metaphone
.. _Soundex: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soundex
.. _Andrew Collins' work: http://www.atomodo.com/code/double-metaphone/metaphone.py/view
.. _Andres Collins: http://www.atomodo.com/
.. _Matthew Somerville: https://github.com/dracos/
.. _Duncan McGreggor: https://github.com/oubiwann/
.. _quite well: http://theatricalia.com/search?q=chuck+iwugee
.. _φarsk project: https://github.com/oubiwann/tharsk
